Welcome to RAD patterns.
And by RAD I mean rapid
application development.
Let's talk about this narrative
arc we're gonna go on today.
So we're gonna start out with a primer.
And we're just gonna write some very,
very basic JavaScript.
So to be rapid, to achieve rapid
application development enlightenment,
just how much JavaScript
do we need to know?
And, then we're gonna
lead into a big idea.
And, there's something that I believe
the most important thing that
if we walk away from today,
I will be very happy.
And so what is the big idea?
Stay tuned.
Then we're going to talk
about architecture.
How do we need to think about architecture
for rapid application development to work?
And if you're sitting here thinking, well,
you're using that super RAD term, but
I don't know what that means.
Don't worry, we'll unpack that.
And then we'll talk about domain models,
live templates, string manipulation,
which is where all the magic happens.
And then we're going to
get into generators, and
by generators, I mean money printers.
And so I want to ask a question.
So, everybody grab your coffee,
your hot chocolate,
let's cozy up by the fire and
let's think about this for a second.
Is it possible that you
could build applications
ten times faster than you are right now?
So I'm just gonna let that sit for
a second.
And just think, is it possible for
me to be ten times faster?
Now, what I want to then ask is what would
that mean for your career as a developer?
What would that mean for
your organization?
And everybody that benefits from your
livelihood as a software engineer?
So it's one thing to say,
could this happen, could it be?
But then when you start to think about,
well, what is the, instead of output,
shifting and reframing it to outcome,
what would be the outcome of us
learning how to be three times,
five times, ten times faster?
And so this is the goal for today,
is that I want to make
a very strong case that yes,
you can be ten times faster,
I'm going to show you how to do that.
More importantly,
is I want to show you how
to think about code to
be ten times faster.
And so, with that, I want to show you,
just peel back the curtain just a bit and
show you the wizard,
show you the end game of where
somebody could go with this.
And then I'm gonna close that curtain.
And we're gonna talk about how to
achieve this in your own work.
So what I have here is an application and
I call it, lovingly,
PROTOGEN, it'll probably never
see the light of the day.
But this is a permutation of
where we can go with this.
So imagine, I take a project and
in this project,
I have courses, lessons and users.
And I'm able to select the entities or
the schemas that I want.
And from here,
I can generate the CLI command that
will generate the entire project.
I can even generate some mock JSON data.
I can generate services,
selectors, whatever you want,
that you can see that
there's actually a number of
layers here of the things
that we could generate.
In fact,
if I wanted to do this in GraphQL,
I could select this and
now I have a GraphQL version of this.
And on top of that, what I can do
is I can click this, I can copy it.
Now it's on my clipboard, or
I could even click Download and save this.
And so this is a shell file.sh.
And so that's why I said,
be careful, but we can do that.
And so this is a permutation
of where we can take this and
I have used this to kick
start a number of projects.
And the impetus for
this particular workshop comes
from a conversation that I
had with Gleb Bob Mataf,
who is the lead engineer of Cypress.
So I think that when it
comes to end-to-end testing,
that I think Cypress has absolutely
changed the game, moving from Selenium.
And I have massive respect for Gleb.
And I was showing him this particular tool
to get feedback and he asked me, he said,
this is really awesome, but
are you going to open source it?
And my response was, I don't think
I will ever open source this,
but I would be happy to show somebody
how to build their own version of this.
And it was when I said that,
the seed was planted for this workshop.
And so from here, we are going to
first talk about the mindset and
the architecture that you have to
achieve to do something like this.
And then we're gonna get very,
very tactical and start to build
some very sharp, very tiny, very
effective tools to make this a reality.